README.md, before:

# MTG Deck Builder

A Python tool to enrich ManaBox CSV exports with Scryfall data and build decks using AI suggestions.

## Setup

```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source ./venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Phase 1: Enrich Collection

Enrich your ManaBox CSV with card details from Scryfall:

```bash
python enrich_cards.py --input manabox-db.csv --output enriched.csv
```

**Options:**
- `-i, --input`: Input ManaBox CSV file (required)
- `-o, --output`: Output enriched CSV file (required)
- `--log-level`: Logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR)
- `--resume`: Resume from previous run

## Phase 2: Deck Building

### Setup OpenAI API

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

### Explore Collection

```bash
# Show collection stats
python collection_filter.py --stats

# Filter by color and type
python collection_filter.py --colors W --types Creature --cmc-max 2

# Search by name
python collection_filter.py --search "Paladin"
```

### Get AI Suggestions

```bash
# Basic suggestions
python deck_builder.py --seeds "Paladin Class" "Kitesail Cleric"

# More suggestions with details
python deck_builder.py --seeds "Speaker of the Heavens" --count 12 --details

# Find synergistic pairs
python deck_builder.py --pairs 5

# Find synergistic triplets
python deck_builder.py --triplets 3
```

## Command Options

**Deck Builder:**
- `--seeds, -s`: Seed card names
- `--count, -c`: Number of suggestions (default: 8)
- `--details, -d`: Show detailed card info
- `--pairs, -p`: Find N synergistic pairs
- `--triplets, -t`: Find N synergistic triplets

**Collection Filter:**
- `--colors, -c`: Filter by colors (W, U, B, R, G)
- `--types, -t`: Filter by card types
- `--cmc-min/--cmc-max`: Filter by CMC range
- `--search`: Search by card name
- `--stats`: Show collection statistics

## Example Workflow

1. Enrich your collection: `python enrich_cards.py -i manabox-db.csv -o enriched.csv`
2. Explore options: `python collection_filter.py --search "Paladin"`
3. Get suggestions: `python deck_builder.py --seeds "Paladin Class" --count 10`
4. Find synergies: `python deck_builder.py --pairs 5 --details`

## Troubleshooting

- **"OpenAI API key not found"**: Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- **"Card not found"**: Check spelling or use collection filter to search
- **Network errors**: Check internet connection and try again

Commit message:

Move config settings to argparse and simplify logging
- Remove config.json dependency and load_config() functions
- Add argparse options for OpenAI model and temperature with defaults
- Replace complex logging options with simple -v/--verbose flag for DEBUG
- Update logging format to use DD-MM HH:MM date format
- Remove logging configuration from imported modules to prevent conflicts
- Update help text and examples in both scripts

README.md, after:

# MTG Deck Builder
Author: J. Taylor Childers with the help of Cursor AI.
A Python tool to enrich ManaBox CSV exports with Scryfall data and build decks using AI suggestions.

## Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Phase 1: Enrich Collection

I have a collection of cards that I had added to my ManaBox collection. I can export the collection as a CSV file, however it doesn't include card details for deck building, but it does uniquely identify each card. So the first step is to use Scryfall to add the card details to the CSV file.

Enrich your ManaBox CSV with card details from Scryfall:

```bash
python enrich_cards.py --input manabox-db.csv --output enriched.csv
```

**Options:**
- `-i, --input`: Input ManaBox CSV file (required)
- `-o, --output`: Output enriched CSV file (required)
- `--log-level`: Logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR)
- `--resume`: Resume from previous run

## Phase 2: Deck Building

### Setup OpenAI API Key

```bash
export OPENAI_API_BASE="https://api.openai.com/v1"
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

### Explore Collection

```bash
# Show collection stats
python collection_filter.py --stats

# Filter by color and type
python collection_filter.py --colors W --types Creature --cmc-max 2

# Search by name
python collection_filter.py --search "Paladin"
```

### Get AI Suggestions

```bash
# Basic suggestions
python deck_builder.py --seeds "Paladin Class" "Kitesail Cleric"

# More suggestions with details
python deck_builder.py --seeds "Speaker of the Heavens" --count 12 --details

# Find synergistic pairs
python deck_builder.py --pairs 5

# Find synergistic triplets
python deck_builder.py --triplets 3
```

## Command Options

**Deck Builder:**
- `--seeds, -s`: Seed card names
- `--count, -c`: Number of suggestions (default: 8)
- `--details, -d`: Show detailed card info
- `--pairs, -p`: Find N synergistic pairs
- `--triplets, -t`: Find N synergistic triplets

**Collection Filter:**
- `--colors, -c`: Filter by colors (W, U, B, R, G)
- `--types, -t`: Filter by card types
- `--cmc-min/--cmc-max`: Filter by CMC range
- `--search`: Search by card name
- `--stats`: Show collection statistics

## Example Workflow

1. Enrich your collection: `python enrich_cards.py -i manabox-db.csv -o enriched.csv`
2. Explore options: `python collection_filter.py --search "Paladin"`
3. Get suggestions: `python deck_builder.py --seeds "Paladin Class" --count 10`
4. Find synergies: `python deck_builder.py --pairs 5 --details`

## Troubleshooting

- **"OpenAI API key not found"**: Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- **"Card not found"**: Check spelling or use collection filter to search
- **Network errors**: Check internet connection and try again
